Aug 24 2016
1. Existing work constructs software graphs based on function call or class relations. Several metrics are applied to measure the quality of software, such as modularity and clustering coefficient [1,2,3]. We can study if the traditional metrics can be used in our variational software graph.
2. Another direction of the graph-based analysis method is for software prediction. For example, based on current software evolution process, we can predict possible software quality or possible maintenance efforts of the coming software version [4]. One work [5] tries to model the software evolution process, and then use the model to forecast the future trends of software. We can consider the similar way to build the evolution model of variational software. Maybe we need to define new metric to suit the additions of 
  presence conditions. We can quite quickly verify this by generating CGs for say five consecutive Linux versions and predicte where
  is the change of the sixth version? 
3. Currently, we only do some experiments on the driver part of linux kernel. We can investigate if the graph properties of other parts (eg. fs, mm or kernel core) are different. I'm wondering if CGs will serve this purpose well. The reason is that presence conditions
  are not explicitly represented but as weight of the edges and nodes and we don't have a good way to compare presence conditions.
4. Current problems: (a) what are the unique properties of variational software that we are interested in. For example, the software variability. How can we measure such properties of software and (b) is the current variational software graph proper for variability study? We only give edge weight based on the numbers of #ifdef of function calls, but we do not consider the numbers of #ifdef of functions. However, it seems like functions with more #ifdef play more important rule in software variability.
5. Fixed null pointer dereference bugs in kernel can be found by using git, and then we look into those fixes and try to see if there has any pattern can be learned. So we can use the learned pattern to detect the possible NPD bugs. (I think we could have a doc to record how the NPD bugs are fixed.) 
6. Use the excel to record the haskell error patterns.
7. How to defined weights of presence conditions? The number of #ifdefs is not a good measure because more #ifdefs doesn't mean the edge or node is more likely to present. We can think of the number of cases the presence condition is satisfied. Based on the feature model from the configuration files, we can count the number of assignments such that the presnce condition will evaluate to true. This is, however, very expensive. We may need to find approximations. 
8. Use the difference between variational CGs and traditional CGs to reflect the usefulness of proposed quality metrics.
Reference:
1.Myers C R. Software systems as complex networks: Structure, function, and evolvability of software collaboration graphs[J]. Physical Review E, 2003, 68(4): 046116.
2.Hierarchical Small-Worlds in Software Architecture[J]. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 2003
3.Šubelj L, Bajec M. Community structure of complex software systems: Analysis and applications[J]. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 2011, 390(16): 2968-2975.
4.Bhattacharya P, Iliofotou M, Neamtiu I, et al. Graph-based analysis and prediction for software evolution[C]//Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Software Engineering. IEEE Press, 2012: 419-429.
5.Chaikalis T, Chatzigeorgiou A. Forecasting Java Software Evolution Trends employing Network Models[J]. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 2015, 41(6): 582-602.

